fairer tongue
there is no neutrality in our tongue. every word is hither or thither, flagging, marking territory.
the territory it corresponds to is antiquated, the holy halls of philology, the reflection pools historians try to paint still. the threadbare reality of our borders is buzzy and ever changing, the living text at the tip of every tongue. some of us, warlocks of debatable grammar, think we have a pretty good idea of the neighborhoods. but to the chagrin of those who like fixed borders, the street names of speech change with each spoken word, and nowhere is the relationship between map and territory more fleeting than in this city.
“High Speech was a sign of class and education. A noble who neglected it, he’d be no different than the throng that muttered low speech in the outskirts of the city.”
the old quarter is where High Speech lived, the outer circle home to low speech. historically. but today the daily skirmish is fought at the line to the market, and before the street preacheress, and in the job interview. but how will you choose paper or plastic, but which divine pamphlet will you accept, but which descriptor will you sell yourself with, for there are always two versions. either choice carries a convocation, every word requires halving. circumlocution is nigh impossible, unwavering, like speaking our way through a brick wall.
we must have an inherited conversation, fore or aft, within or without.
“High Speech is grammatically dominant,” spoke Profesora Juarez, “and only grammatically.” twelve years followed, of the most unsuccessfully neutral language schooling the Royal Academy could draft up, to breathe brief life into birthright lie.
hearsay heresy spreads of those who snap the necks of endings. High Speakers scoff and low speakers shake their heads, but interdicted vowels are swapped out of nouns like cars spoken still in midair. songs of half remembered melody with oblivion’s lost lyrics ring out, like a familiar new scaffold. and however deeply the prof hides her disenchantment, for once she meets with the coven at the border where the three trees cast foreshadow over broken speech.
“I take no offense,” she says sitting lofty, “if our grammar excludes me in some sentences.” her verbal inflections are righteous, like the setting stone of a noble, weathered cathedral. “When it’s necessary to clarify, there are words for that.” she points vaguely. “I grew up on that side of town. I know.” she’s reassuring herself, not them.
“you leave half of us hidden from speech,” spits Alba, wordiest bruja, her nouns inflected crosseyed, verbs implying gnarled limbs. “language has always reflected its speakers, and its speakers have changed. you think folklore demographics are sacrosanct? people might scoff if you conjugate the wrong way up the wrong street, but everywhich speech is everywhere.”
Juarez says, “That’s a made up word.”
Alba, “they all are.”
“There’s a reason we have a Royal Academy of Language!”
“to record ‘pretty echoes of the long dead’, as a poet once said.”
“So, what then?” says the profesora, her low boil spilling over. “We’re going to break the bones of our language just because people moved? You’ll pluck the feathers of our tongue just because our grandfathers-
“ancestors,” says someone unseen. they literally say ascendientes, implying ascendancy.
Juarez finds circumlocution. “because our - ancestral! - outlooks shifted?”
“de acuerdo.” indeed. Alba chooses a phrase implying an agreement between them. “our ancestors forged this language from halfblood wounds sliced from our neighbors. it’s not holy. we’re simply heirs a rigid tongue where every word encodes something-
“Which is sometimes useful!” says the prof.
“and no one said it wasn’t.” a pause for heft. and ritual. “but we are not fifteenth century nobility and it’s an issue that half of us are absent from every sentence. and, it’s oft been commented, we don’t even have words for [foreigner]” she uses a borrowed word.
“We have words like ajeno.”
“nearly the only one, and its connotations are not lost to this coven.”
a nameless newcomer joins in the circle. or was already there. chanting their way into visibility.
Juarez continues, “And it’s not lost upon this group how treating well-established and agreed upon grammar rules as your own personal clay causes confusion. It’s uncomfortable. It’s jarring.”
“clearly,” she says, without inflection, like a drop in the ocean.
“Clarity and concision are paramount. If you forged your fairer tongue, we wouldn’t be able to speak any sense at all!”
“a problem of little imagination.” and with these words the incantation was sealed.
born from the speakers’ innermost shadows, a gentle darkness spread across the shifting blocks.
and none could breathe nil sense to sound for a full moon.
inconvenience begot slumber, and a quiet evening came to pass upon that fair city.
but the sun rose, and words were found. those cloaked in sacred corners were cast into speech and welcomed for cafecito. with a wholeheartedly unsurprising normalcy, words were exchanged.
“welcome”. bienvenide.
thence, and forever.
