“so, Mr. Hopeful Romantic. spin me this week’s tales.”
i smirked at the moniker, eyes closed on the face cradle. she approached the lovecraftian horror that was my knotted back. a countryside askew of contrived flesh, met with muscular tenderness. i recoiled, resisting that first contact no matter how soft and deliberate.
“it’s your job to spin the tales, Madame Poet”, i said. she gave a subvocal chuckle.
“well, right now it’s your job to relax and tell me about your loves and my job to work your back.” there was a calmish silence. i didn’t want to broach this, but she’s good at what she does.
“so i spoke to Leo”, i said.
she hummed warmly, her smile audible behind me. territory was being marked along my spine. flinching fissures, emotionally unavailable plains, tectonic plates in some seemingly abnormal, ageless disagreement.
“i thought about what you said, you know, and you were right.”
“about how you need to stop overscheduling enough to think about other people? or about how you hide behind others’ flaws to excuse your own?”
“both”, i groaned.
“i know.”
“and i apologized to him.”
“i’d hoped.”
she rolled into my lower back with the weight of her whole body, having uncovered some unspoken rhythm that disarmed whatever monstrous resistance lay fathomless.
“what’d he say?” she pushed onto a shallow swelling that resisted. i shuddered. she repeated the movement slowly. there was fondness in her palms, feeling for something nameless.
“he thanked me. and said he realized after dating me that it’s important to communicate what he’s hoping for in a relationship.” a brief pause. “which is a fucking understatement.”
“cut out that judgy shit”, she singsonged, hands off my body.
“sorry, yeah.” fingers returned with tough softness. “anyway, that he’s been telling his new partner what he’s looking for up front. and it’s served him well.”
mountains of clay softened silently.
“good for him. and you, then?”
“and i learned to check in with someone i’m dating.” i gave a half mocking tone, but half sincere. increasingly sincere. “we don’t have to have an hour long communion. just a word in, here and there, to make sure we’re on the same page.” 
“just fucking communicate”, she said, singing the last word long.
a silence for a while. vast and vacuous a minute. fingers like caterpillar tracks thumped rapidly and traveled slowly.
“you know, you talk about communication like it’s an on and off switch,” i said, “but it’s so not a light switch. it’s not even a dimmer.” caterpillar tracks slowed. “it’s like… in your poetry. you come to me and say it’s nearly done, but missing something?”
“often.”
“and then you work on it all week and come back with just a few changed words.”
she chuckled, pressing slowly into my upper back. there wasn’t much work to be done up there, though.
“you say you had good ideas and everything was mostly formed, but the whole thing felt off, that you were just shy of completion.”
“always, yes.”
my neck was still beyond real reprieve. fingers found resistance as they wound over hills of duplicitous warmth.
“so you come back the next week, just a few more words changed. it’s better, and it’s still not complete.”
“always, yes.”
“the edits are usually better, and you’re always narrowing on next week’s final draft.”
she pushed soft siege against whatever otherworldly feeling had lain claim to the left side of my neck. yawning and familiar flames roared wordless.
“words and hearts are not the same,” she said. “writers have to write final drafts, but the heart never quite can.”
“but along the way… you edit in stages.”
“it’s all i can do.” orange hues and low burns flared across some knot, uncanny and stubborn.
“week by week, draft by draft. you’re always six words away from perfection.”
the knots tried as they might to unyield. in that moment, putting word and touch to love seemed forced and human, both. it is human when something rooted and abysmal seeks refuge in mundane muscles. a faceless feeling seeks harbor in daily exhaustion and forgotten disdain. it scathes in coldness, whispers lies with no vowels. it makes callus of kindness, given the chance. but it budged just a little bit today. 
